# Planning rows and CSS classes for website

In this lesson we will set up the rows and the containers.

Our layout contains a series of **rows** that either wrap around entire sections of the layout, or reside inside sections of the layout. We have a separate row for the header, the feature, the images, the testimonials, the recent press and the footer. Inside we also have a bunch of smaller rows which wrap around different parts of the page.

Many of the outer rows seem to be unique: they've got different padding, background colors, and even different text styles. In these cases, we could give each row additional modifier classes that can then be used to style individual characteristics.

Let's start with different background colors. There are four individual types of rows:

* row--white
* row--grey
* row--blue
* row--dark-grey

Some of the rows have different padding. You'll see that in some cases the top and bottom padding is wide, and sometimes it is more narrower. There are also special cases like the banner, and we could use a unique modifier, something like `row--banner`. So all of our classes would be things like .row for our module, andthen we have modifiers, row--white, --blue, --dark-grey, and --grey.We then have our padding modifiers,row--padding-medium, and row--padding-wide.We also have our special one of row--banner.Now as you can see, at a glance we can immediately tell that they're allrelated to the row model, module, and that they have modifiers.???????????/

# Creating the HTML elements for rows

Open up the *index.html* file. We're going to create the markup for our rows. 

Inside we need a class of `.row`, and we also forthis one need a modifier of row--banner.And we can copy this and put it down under features.I'm going to need to change this to white, and then we need to add row.Row--padding-wide.Copy and paste that again for photos.And for this one, we just need row.For testimonials.We need wide.For facts, we need gray, and wide.For press we need blue, and medium.And for the footer.We need dark grey.So we should have banner, feature, photos,testimonial, facts, press and footer.And if we look at our classes,we're going to have row banner, white and padding wide.Just a row, then white and padding wide.Facts is going to be grey and padding wide.Press is blue and padding medium.And footer is dark grey and padding medium.Let's go and style at rows.????

```html
```

# Styling the rows

Open up *layout.css*. The first thing we need to do is style the main row, the module.

```css
```

`clear: both` means that the rows will clear any row above. `overflow: hidden` means that the rows will wrap around any floated items inside.

Next up are the colors.

```css
```

So, we're sitting at to row--dark-grey and this is a color of white,and a background of a sort of softish grey, deep grey.And we're going to do one more, even though we're going to take this outlater on, just so we can see it, we're going to set our row banner.Next up we need to style our padding.And we're going to copy that.bottom, that's going to be the same.Now how do we get this measurement?Well it's actually 35.35px divided by 16px.So in the, the design presented at small screen,the padding is 35px high on the top and bottom.And so if we wanted to convert that into an em unit,we just change it to dividing by 16px.And we can copy that and use it again for the wide value.Now at this point, they're going to stay the same butat some point we might need to come back and change them.If not, we could always move that up there.But for now let's leave it alone.And what we need to do is to go down and create a media query.
Adding media queries for rows:

So down here.Min-width 38em.So this will mean that any rule we write in here will only take place ifthe view port is a minimum of 38em.Now what we can do is copy our padding medium andpadding wide, put them down below.Now these are actually going to be18px because we've changed the default font size.And this one is going to be.And this is the equivalent of 70px and 100px.So now I'm going to have a look in the browser and see what's happening.And if you look at our browser, you can see that it looks a bit odd at the moment.But our banner is sitting there,our feature, our photos, testimonials, and the present footer.And if we drag this in,you'll see that the padding goes much smaller when we're at small screen,as soon as it hits that 30 ADM, the padding jumps up to wider size.