When compiling Sass, you might have noticed two files are generated. One is your compiled CSS file that ends in a .css file extension, and the other is a file that ends in a .css.map file extension, which is called a source map. This file provides a way to associate the lines of code in the compiled CSS back to the original source in your Sass files.

This could be very useful when debugging your code in the browser. And when correctly configured in the developer tools, opens up some really exiting features that allow you to edit and save your code direct from the developer tools in the browser. So in this video, we'll cover enabling and working with source maps.

And creating workspaces to autosave your Dev tools work back to your code. In Sass 3.4 and above, source maps are generated by default when you run the Sass command. I've got a simple Sass project setup here with an index page and an assets folder containing SCSS and CSS folders.

If I run the standard Ruby Sass command to compile my style.scss into style.css with a watch flag and then go in and save one of my Sass files, we'll see that two different files are generated. Sass writes a style.css file and a style.css.map. If we open up the CSS file, you should recognize some familiar looking code.

But the map file doesn't contain any styles but does contain a JSON object that contains a series of data points that map line numbers in the Sass source to lines in the compiled CSS file. So the browser knows where to find the map file, three's a line at the end of the CSS file that links the two together.

So this is what source maps consist of. But what does that means for us developers? Well, to understand that let's jump into the browser. Here's the index page for our simple Sass project that we were just working with in the terminal. If I inspect element on the large Sass logo in the title, it will show me the elements view in the Chrome Dev tools.

In the Styles tab, we can see all the CSS declarations that are applying to this element, along with the files where those declarations are made. We have box.scss on line 15, reset.scss on line 3, box.scss on line 10, etc. And these are all Saas partials. If I click on one of these file names, the developer tools will then open the Sources tab and jump to the line in the specified file.

Here you'll see your authored Sass code rather than the compiled CSS. Even though the only file that is linked to this HTML document is the style.css file. Due to the presence of the source map, the SCSS folder is shown as a source in the file tree to the left hand side as well.

And this can be an invaluable tool when working on, and debugging a large project. It's common to use the browser developer tools to track down bugs or to experiment and design in the browser. You can inspect element, and play around with any CSS values directly in the browser.

Which is a great way to speed up your workflow and to test things out instead of constantly switching back from the code to the browser to the code to the browser. The only down side of working in this way is that these changes disappear whenever you refresh the page.

So to incorporate all the various settings that you might have experimented or tinkered with into your code, you have to write them down on a piece of paper, or make a mental note of them and then recreate them one by one. And this can be slow, and prone to human error.

But some developer tools allow you to save your work back to the original source files when working locally. In the Chrome browser, this is done by creating something called a Workspace. The first step in creating a Workspace is to start a local web server from within your project folder.

I'm on a Mac here, so I'm gonna use the Python SimpleHTTPServer which should be available without you needing to install anything else. To make sure your Sass compiler is still running and watching for changes as well. Running this command will start a server running at local host colon 7000, which you can visit in the browser to check that everything is working as before.

To create a link between the files that are being served on this local host and the files on the local file system, you first need to open the developer tools and click on the icon with three vertical dots to open the sub menu. From here, click on Settings and then select Workspace.

A bit like the source maps forming a link between your Sass files and your compiled CSS, a Workspace creates a mapping between the files that are being served on local host and the files inside of your project folder. Click on the Add folder button and Add http://localhost:7000/assets into the URL prefix field.

And then just put a / in the Folder path field. Once you've done that, click on the Add button to create the mapping. And when that's done, you can close the settings Window. Back in the browser, we can now inspect elements as usual. But instead of adjusting values in the Styles tab, we can Cmd+click on the property name or the value which we want to edit.

And that will take us to the Sources tab, and jump down to the corresponding line in the file. From here, we can change colors, font sizes, spacing, and anything else right within the Dev tools. Saving the file will auto refresh the page, and your new Sass code will be saved.

You can even edit variables and other Sass features without even leaving your browser, magic.

